source/technical-design/components-resources-entities.rst, before:

###################################
Components, Resources, and Entities
###################################
The game's data is organized as components, resources, and entities. An entity
represents a single object in the game. A component represents one aspect of an
entity and store the data related to that aspect. Entities do not store any
actual data but instead are associated with one or more components.

For example, a Pong type game might have a ball entity that is composed of a
position component, sprint component and a ball component.

Resources store global data that is not specific to any one entity. For example,
the score in a pong game is global to the entire game.

This section describes the notable components, resources, entities, and
supporting types used in the game. Additional components, resources, and
entities are created for environment specific features as needed.


=====================
Environments Resource
=====================
A major feature of FoxXO is its many environments. Environments are responsible
for managing required assets and spawning / destroying entities as the game
progresses. This is similar responsibility as *maps* in other games.

The Environments resource is responsible for providing access and managing the
all of the environments. :numref:`uml-environments-struct` shows the
Environments resource.

..  _uml-environments-struct:
..  uml::
    :caption: Environments resource.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    struct(Environments) {
        + new()
        + debug(debug_options)
        + load()
        + spawn_random(options)
        + delete_current()
        + spawn_mark(player, position)
        + spawn_game_over(winning_positions, outcome_affinity)
    }

The methods of the of the Environments resource are described below.

new
    Creates the Environments resource.
debug
    Allows usage of the special debug environment. When the debug environment
    is enabled, grid lines, marks, and other annotations are drawn on top of the
    current environment.
load
    Loads assets required for all the environments.
spawn_random
    Spawns a random environment. If there is a current alive environment, it is
    deleted before the new environment is spawned. A shuffle short is used that
    ensures every environment is spawned once. The provided options include the
    current game state to show and if extraneous entities should be avoided.
delete_current
    Deletes the current environment and all its owned entities. This is useful
    when switching to the game menu.
spawn_mark
    Spawns a mark for the indicated player at the given position. This must be
    called after the game is updated to keep the environment state synchronized
    with the game.
spawn_game_over
    Spawns the game over related entities. The winning positions, if any, are
    provided. The outcome affinity is useful for single player games allowing
    environments to react to the player winning or losing. The neutral affinity
    is used or multiplayer games or cat's games.

The Environments resource requires each environment to implement the Environment
trait shown in :numref:`uml-environment-trait`.

..  _uml-environment-trait:
..  uml::
    :caption: Environment trait.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    trait(Environment) {
        + spawn(options)
        + delete()
        + is_alive()
        + spawn_mark(player, position)
        + spawn_game_over(winning_positions, outcome_affinity)
    }

The trait methods are:

spawn
    Spawns the initial set of entities for the environment using the provided
    options. This typically includes a background, grid, decorations, and
    initial set of marks if there is already a game in progress.
delete
    Deletes all entities from the environment.
is_alive
    Indicates if the environment is alive, that is has at least one entity.
spawn_mark
    Spawns a mark for the indicated player at the provided position.
spawn_game_over
    Spawns the game over related entities.


===============
Other Resources
===============
In addition to environments, there are a other notable resources used by the
game.

The game resource provides access to the underlying tic-tac-toe game logic and
the last time a move was done on the game. Helper methods are provided to make
tasks such as seeing if it is a given player's turn. The game resource is
shown in :numref:`uml-game-resource`.

..  _uml-game-resource:
..  uml::
    :caption: Game resource.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    struct(Game) {
        + game: ttt::Game
        + last_move_time
        + is_players_move(player) -> bool
    }

The grid resource, shown in :numref:`uml-grid-resource` provides access to the
grid and methods to convert between screen coordinates and tic-tac-toe positions.

..  _uml-grid-resource:
..  uml::
    :caption: Grid resource.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    struct(Grid) {
        + origin: Point
        + size: Point
        + center_points() -> vec<Point>
        + to_position(Point) -> Optional<Position>
        + cell(Position) -> (origin, size)
    }

Additional conversion methods are added as needed to the grid resource.


==================
Notable Components
==================
There are several main components used by the game. These are shown in
:numref:`uml-core-components`.

..  _uml-core-components:
..  uml::
    :caption: Notable game components.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    enum(Player) {
        + X
        + O
    }

    struct(Ai) {
        + ai_opponent
        + move_delay
    }

    struct(Mark) {
        + owner: Player
        + position: Board::Position
    }

Player
    The Player component stores if the player is playing as X or as O.
Mark
    The Mark component indicates the owner of a given position on the board.
Ai
    The AI component provides the underlying AI opponent to use when selecting
    positions. Additionally, a delay can be specified to prevent the AI from
    instantly selecting a position.


============================
Amethyst Provided Components
============================
Amethyst provides several components that are used when building game entities.
Some notable ones that are used by the game are listed below.

Camera
    Represents the game's camera. Contains the projection matrix from world
    coordinates to screen coordinates.
SpriteRender
    Provides information for rendering a sprite.
Transform
    Stores local position, rotation, and scale.

See the Amethyst documentation for details about these components and their
fields.

Commit message:

Add Prototype lessons learned section
This section describes why the Amethyst engine is chosen.

source/technical-design/components-resources-entities.rst, after:

###################################
Components, Resources, and Entities
###################################
The game's data is organized as components, resources, and entities. An entity
represents a single object in the game. A component represents one aspect of an
entity and store the data related to that aspect. Entities do not store any
actual data but instead are associated with one or more components.

For example, a Pong type game might have a ball entity that is composed of a
position component, sprint component and a ball component.

Resources store global data that is not specific to any one entity. For example,
the score in a pong game is global to the entire game.

This section describes the notable components, resources, entities, and
supporting types used in the game. Additional components, resources, and
entities are created for environment specific features as needed.


=====================
Environments Resource
=====================
A major feature of FoxXO is its many environments. Environments are responsible
for managing required assets and spawning / destroying entities as the game
progresses. This is similar responsibility as *maps* in other games.

The Environments resource is responsible for providing access and managing the
all of the environments. :numref:`uml-environments-struct` shows the
Environments resource.

..  _uml-environments-struct:
..  uml::
    :caption: Environments resource.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    struct(Environments) {
        + new()
        + debug(debug_options)
        + load()
        + spawn_random(options)
        + delete_current()
        + spawn_mark(player, position)
        + spawn_game_over(winning_positions, outcome_affinity)
    }

The methods of the of the Environments resource are described below.

new
    Creates the Environments resource.
debug
    Allows usage of the special debug environment. When the debug environment
    is enabled, grid lines, marks, and other annotations are drawn on top of the
    current environment.
load
    Loads assets required for all the environments.
spawn_random
    Spawns a random environment. If there is a current alive environment, it is
    deleted before the new environment is spawned. A shuffle short is used that
    ensures every environment is spawned once. The provided options include the
    current game state to show and if extraneous entities should be avoided.
delete_current
    Deletes the current environment and all its owned entities. This is useful
    when switching to the game menu.
spawn_mark
    Spawns a mark for the indicated player at the given position. This must be
    called after the game is updated to keep the environment state synchronized
    with the game.
spawn_game_over
    Spawns the game over related entities. The winning positions, if any, are
    provided. The outcome affinity is useful for single player games allowing
    environments to react to the player winning or losing. The neutral affinity
    is used or multiplayer games or cat's games.

The Environments resource requires each environment to implement the Environment
trait shown in :numref:`uml-environment-trait`.

..  _uml-environment-trait:
..  uml::
    :caption: Environment trait.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    trait(Environment) {
        + spawn(options)
        + delete()
        + is_alive()
        + spawn_mark(player, position)
        + spawn_game_over(winning_positions, outcome_affinity)
    }

The trait methods are:

spawn
    Spawns the initial set of entities for the environment using the provided
    options. This typically includes a background, grid, decorations, and
    initial set of marks if there is already a game in progress.
delete
    Deletes all entities from the environment.
is_alive
    Indicates if the environment is alive, that is has at least one entity.
spawn_mark
    Spawns a mark for the indicated player at the provided position.
spawn_game_over
    Spawns the game over related entities.

..  warning::
    Many environments highlight or provide a special graphic for an available
    square the user is hovering over. This concept is not fully explored by the
    design proposed here. The debug environment can be used to explore this
    feature and reduce its risk.


===============
Other Resources
===============
In addition to environments, there are a other notable resources used by the
game.

The game resource provides access to the underlying tic-tac-toe game logic and
the last time a move was done on the game. Helper methods are provided to make
tasks such as seeing if it is a given player's turn. The game resource is
shown in :numref:`uml-game-resource`.

..  _uml-game-resource:
..  uml::
    :caption: Game resource.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    struct(Game) {
        + game: ttt::Game
        + last_move_time
        + is_players_move(player) -> bool
    }

The grid resource, shown in :numref:`uml-grid-resource` provides access to the
grid and methods to convert between screen coordinates and tic-tac-toe positions.

..  _uml-grid-resource:
..  uml::
    :caption: Grid resource.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    struct(Grid) {
        + origin: Point
        + size: Point
        + center_points() -> vec<Point>
        + to_position(Point) -> Optional<Position>
        + cell(Position) -> (origin, size)
    }

Additional conversion methods are added as needed to the grid resource.


==================
Notable Components
==================
There are several main components used by the game. These are shown in
:numref:`uml-core-components`.

..  _uml-core-components:
..  uml::
    :caption: Notable game components.

    !include rust_types.uml
    hide empty members

    enum(Player) {
        + X
        + O
    }

    struct(Ai) {
        + ai_opponent
        + move_delay
    }

    struct(Mark) {
        + owner: Player
        + position: Board::Position
    }

Player
    The Player component stores if the player is playing as X or as O.
Mark
    The Mark component indicates the owner of a given position on the board.
Ai
    The AI component provides the underlying AI opponent to use when selecting
    positions. Additionally, a delay can be specified to prevent the AI from
    instantly selecting a position.


============================
Amethyst Provided Components
============================
Amethyst provides several components that are used when building game entities.
Some notable ones that are used by the game are listed below.

Camera
    Represents the game's camera. Contains the projection matrix from world
    coordinates to screen coordinates.
SpriteRender
    Provides information for rendering a sprite.
Transform
    Stores local position, rotation, and scale.

See the Amethyst documentation for details about these components and their
fields.
