source/misc/platforms.rst, before:

################
Target Platforms
################
FoxXO runs on a variety of popular desktop operating systems including
Windows, macOS, and Linux. Being a casual game, it does not require a beefy
video card or fast processor. :numref:`table-min-system-requirements` lists
the minimum system requirements.

..  _table-min-system-requirements:
..  table:: FoxXO minimum system requirements

    ==================  ===================================
    OS                  Windows 10, Linux [#linux]_, macOS
    Processor           1GHz dual core
    RAM                 4GB
    Disk                500 MB available space
    Graphics            OpenGL compatible graphics adapter
    Display             800 x 600 pixel display or larger
    ==================  ===================================


..  rubric:: Footnotes

..  [#linux] FoxXO is tested on the latest releases of Debian and Fedora.
        It should work on other popular distributions including Ubuntu. However,
        testing on other distributions is outside the scope of this project.

Commit message:

Document cleanup including addressing TODO items
This commit address all of the TODO items and does other general cleanup.
This includes using an easier to render bitmap version of the LED grid
concept art and tweaking the documents wording.

source/misc/platforms.rst, after:

################
Target Platforms
################
FoxXO runs on a variety of popular desktop operating systems including
Windows, macOS, and Linux. Being a casual game, it does not require a beefy
video card or fast processor. :numref:`table-min-system-requirements` lists
the minimum system requirements.

..  _table-min-system-requirements:
..  table:: FoxXO minimum system requirements

    ==================  ===================================
    OS                  Windows 10, Linux [#linux]_, macOS
    Processor           1GHz dual core
    RAM                 4GB
    Disk                500 MB available space
    Graphics            OpenGL compatible graphics adapter
    Display             800 x 600 pixel display or larger
    ==================  ===================================

A system with the above requirements listed in
:numref:`table-min-system-requirements` can render the game at an average of at
least 30 frames per second.

..  rubric:: Footnotes

..  [#linux] FoxXO is tested on the latest releases of Debian and Fedora.
        It should work on other popular distributions including Ubuntu. However,
        testing on other distributions is outside the scope of this project.
