source/glossary.rst, before:

########
Glossary
########

..  Please keep the glossary alphabetically sorted.

..  glossary::
    :sorted:

    background music
        Background music is a type of music that is not intended to be the
        primary focus of listeners. When described as the type of music for an
        :term:`environment`, it indicates the environment's music is not a main
        focus of the environment.

    background scenery
        TODO

    cat's game
        Term used when a game of tic-tac-toe ends in a draw where there is no winner.

    environment
        An environment is a unique setting or location where tic-tac-toe is
        played.

    grid
        TODO

    hand drawn
        Hand drawn is a style of line that is wavy and imprecise.

    mark
        TODO

    open source software
        TODO

    Rust programming language
        Rust is a systems programming language with a focus on safety and speed.
        Website: `<https://www.rust-lang.org/>`__

    RustConf
         RustConf is the annual Rust developers conference.

    speedrun
        A speed run is a play-though of a video game where the go is to complete
        the game as fast as possible.

    throwaway prototype
        TODO

Commit message:

Document cleanup including addressing TODO items
This commit address all of the TODO items and does other general cleanup.
This includes using an easier to render bitmap version of the LED grid
concept art and tweaking the documents wording.

source/glossary.rst, after:

########
Glossary
########

..  Please keep the glossary alphabetically sorted.

..  glossary::
    :sorted:

    background music
        Background music is a type of music that is not intended to be the
        primary focus of listeners. When described as the type of music for an
        :term:`environment`, it indicates the environment's music is not a main
        focus of the environment.

    cat's game
        Term used when a game of tic-tac-toe ends in a draw where there is no winner.

    environment
        An environment is a unique setting or location where tic-tac-toe is
        played.

    hand drawn
        Hand drawn is a style of line that is wavy and imprecise.

    open source software
        Open source software is software whose source code is available for others
        to study, modify, and redistribute.

    Rust programming language
        Rust is a systems programming language with a focus on safety and speed.
        Website: `<https://www.rust-lang.org/>`__

    RustConf
         RustConf is the annual Rust developers conference.

    speedrun
        A speed run is a play-though of a video game where the go is to complete
        the game as fast as possible.

    throwaway prototype
        A prototype is a version of software that is created to demonstrate core
        features or techniques of a software application. A throwaway prototype
        is discarded once the features or techniques have been demonstrated.
        Throwaway prototypes allow for rapid experimentation with low risk.
