source/introduction.rst, before:

############
Introduction
############

========================
Purpose of this Document
========================
This is the game design document for Tic Tac Toe. This document describes in
detail the he objectives, requirements, and design considerations of the game
providing a central location for this information. This is invaluable for
understanding the game's scope, planning the project milestones, and creating
the games assets.

Anyone who is involved with the game's development is encouraged to read this
document and keep a copy handy.

=================
Scope of the Game
=================
Tic Tac Toe is a game of strategy where two players, X and O, take turns placing
their mark in a 3 x 3 gird. The first player to get three marks in a row,
column, or diagonal wins the game.

This version of Tic Tac Toe is an unique take on the classic game. Players of
all ages battle the computer or each other in a variety of stunning environments.
Each environment tells part of the story of Tic Tac Toe from the past, present,
and future. Each environment has a strong visual theme and complementary
soundtrack.

Tic Tac Toe is fee, open source, no contains no annoying advertisements. It
opens runs on Windows, Mac, and Linux. The game launches Summer 2020.

=========================
Overview of this Document
=========================

..  TODO:
    Where to find everything
    See the glossary


==================
Project Objectives
==================
Creation of the Tic Tac Toe game described in this document is part of the
Pound of Rust project. This section describes the project's objectives.


---------------------------------
Create Tic Tac Toe Game with Rust
---------------------------------
The main deliverable of this project is the Tic Tac Toe game for Windows, Mac,
and Linux. This project is the follow-up to the Ounce of Rust project [#ounceOfRust]_
that resulted in the creation of a Rust based Tic Tac Toe logic library,
``open_ttt_lib``. [#openTTTlib]_

In addition to creating a fun game, the project provides more hand on experience
using Rust and is a showcase for ``open_ttt_lib``.


..  _ref-objective-free-of-charge:

-------------------------------------------------------
Provide Free of Charge and Under an Open Source License
-------------------------------------------------------
Tic Tac Toe and all future releases of the game are free, open source, and
contain no advertisements or trackers. The game is released under a permissive
open source license and its code is available from a public repository
such as `<https://github.com/>`__.

Many of today's games casual games are released for free, but include
questionable monetization models such as microtransactions, pay-to-win schemes,
advertisements, and personal data harvesters. Tic Tac Toe stands apart from
these games by respecting player's who choose to spend their valuable time
playing the game.


------------------------
Release by RustConf 2020
------------------------
Tic Tac Toe's initial release is scheduled to coincide with RustConf 2020
on August 21, 2020. RustConf is the annual Rust developers conference; since
Tic Tac Toe is developed in Rust this makes an excellent time to launch a Rust
based game. [#rustconf]_

To help meet the target release date, the initial release of the game might
contain a subset of the environments described in this document.


--------------------------------
Easily Expandable and Modifiable
--------------------------------
Playing Tic Tac Toe in a variety of environments is a large part of what sets
this version of Tic Tac Toe apart from others. The game is designed such that
developers can easily add new environments. This allows developers to focus
their time and efforts creating stunning environments. Additionally, this
lowers the barrier of entry for users who are interested in modifying the game.
Finally, this allows quick turnaround of future releases of the game.

Automated tools, guides, checklists, and detailed documentation are some ways
that can help development speed.


------------------------------
Build Risk Reduction Prototype
------------------------------
The development team creating Tic Tac Toe is new to the Rust programming language
and the available Rust libraries for game development. To help mitigate this
risk, a throwaway prototype game is created early in the project that explores
various technical aspects.

Using the lessons learned from the prototype also helps the development team
design a code base that is easily expandable and modifiable per the above
objective.


..  rubric:: Footnotes

..  [#ounceOfRust] For details on the Ounce of Rust project see the
        `Ounce of Rust Project Manual <https://j-richey.github.io/project-documentation/ounce-of-rust/>`__
..  [#openTTTlib] ``open_ttt_lib`` is available at https://crates.io/crates/open_ttt_lib
        and source code is hosted at https://github.com/j-richey/open_ttt_lib
..  [#rustconf] For details on RustConf see their website: https://rustconf.com/

Commit message:

Add the document overview sub-section
Added the section that describes the major parts of the document.

This commit also reworked the HTML versions index page to reflect that
this is the Tic Tac Toe game design document.

source/introduction.rst, after:

############
Introduction
############

========================
Purpose of this Document
========================
This is the game design document for Tic Tac Toe. This document describes in
detail the he objectives, requirements, and design considerations of the game
providing a central location for this information. This is invaluable for
understanding the game's scope, planning the project milestones, and creating
the games assets.

Anyone who is involved with the game's development is encouraged to read this
document and keep a copy handy.

=================
Scope of the Game
=================
Tic Tac Toe is a game of strategy where two players, X and O, take turns placing
their mark in a 3 x 3 gird. The first player to get three marks in a row,
column, or diagonal wins the game.

This version of Tic Tac Toe is an unique take on the classic game. Players of
all ages battle the computer or each other in a variety of stunning environments.
Each environment tells part of the story of Tic Tac Toe from the past, present,
and future. Each environment has a strong visual theme and complementary
soundtrack.

Tic Tac Toe is fee, open source, no contains no annoying advertisements. It
opens runs on Windows, Mac, and Linux. The game launches Summer 2020.

=========================
Overview of this Document
=========================
This game design document contains chapters covering various aspects of the
game. [#rogers]_ This includes chapters for the game's :doc:`gameplay`,
:doc:`gui`, and various :doc:`environments`.

The :doc:`technical-design/index` chapter provides technical design details of
the games architecture.

Additionally, the :doc:`glossary` defines terms that are used throughout the
game design document.


==================
Project Objectives
==================
Creation of the Tic Tac Toe game described in this document is part of the
Pound of Rust project. This section describes the project's objectives.


---------------------------------
Create Tic Tac Toe Game with Rust
---------------------------------
The main deliverable of this project is the Tic Tac Toe game for Windows, Mac,
and Linux. This project is the follow-up to the Ounce of Rust project [#ounceOfRust]_
that resulted in the creation of a Rust based Tic Tac Toe logic library,
``open_ttt_lib``. [#openTTTlib]_

In addition to creating a fun game, the project provides more hand on experience
using Rust and is a showcase for ``open_ttt_lib``.


..  _ref-objective-free-of-charge:

-------------------------------------------------------
Provide Free of Charge and Under an Open Source License
-------------------------------------------------------
Tic Tac Toe and all future releases of the game are free, open source, and
contain no advertisements or trackers. The game is released under a permissive
open source license and its code is available from a public repository
such as `<https://github.com/>`__.

Many of today's games casual games are released for free, but include
questionable monetization models such as microtransactions, pay-to-win schemes,
advertisements, and personal data harvesters. Tic Tac Toe stands apart from
these games by respecting player's who choose to spend their valuable time
playing the game.


------------------------
Release by RustConf 2020
------------------------
Tic Tac Toe's initial release is scheduled to coincide with RustConf 2020
on August 21, 2020. RustConf is the annual Rust developers conference; since
Tic Tac Toe is developed in Rust this makes an excellent time to launch a Rust
based game. [#rustconf]_

To help meet the target release date, the initial release of the game might
contain a subset of the environments described in this document.


--------------------------------
Easily Expandable and Modifiable
--------------------------------
Playing Tic Tac Toe in a variety of environments is a large part of what sets
this version of Tic Tac Toe apart from others. The game is designed such that
developers can easily add new environments. This allows developers to focus
their time and efforts creating stunning environments. Additionally, this
lowers the barrier of entry for users who are interested in modifying the game.
Finally, this allows quick turnaround of future releases of the game.

Automated tools, guides, checklists, and detailed documentation are some ways
that can help development speed.


------------------------------
Build Risk Reduction Prototype
------------------------------
The development team creating Tic Tac Toe is new to the Rust programming language
and the available Rust libraries for game development. To help mitigate this
risk, a throwaway prototype game is created early in the project that explores
various technical aspects.

Using the lessons learned from the prototype also helps the development team
design a code base that is easily expandable and modifiable per the above
objective.


..  rubric:: Footnotes

..  [#rogers] The structure of this document is based on [Rogers-2014]_.
..  [#ounceOfRust] For details on the Ounce of Rust project see the
        `Ounce of Rust Project Manual <https://j-richey.github.io/project-documentation/ounce-of-rust/>`__
..  [#openTTTlib] ``open_ttt_lib`` is available at https://crates.io/crates/open_ttt_lib
        and source code is hosted at https://github.com/j-richey/open_ttt_lib
..  [#rustconf] For details on RustConf see their website: https://rustconf.com/
